<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>ವೀರಸಂನ್ಯಾಸಿ ವಿವೇಕಾನಂದ</title>
	<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body class="maintext">
	<div class="footnote">
		<aside>
			<p class="footnote-head">Footnotes</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-000c.1.1">
			<p>* ಸುಲೋಮಿಲ್ಂಸಿಲ್ಯ ಇನೊಲ್ಂದು ನುಡಿಯೂ ಲಮನಾಹಲ್ :</p>
			<p><span class="en">Love of Work is a moral quality that can only be fostered within the collective. The more powerful the collective’s respect for work, the more effective the moulding of each school child.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-000c.1.2">
			<p><span class="en">* India will conquer her conquerers?culturally, not politically</span><span class="quote-author"> - Arnold Toynbee</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-000c.1.3">
			<p>ಭವ್ಯ ಭಾರತ ನಿರ್ಮಾಣ, ಶ್ರೀ ರಾಮಕೃಷ್ಣ ಆಶ್ರಮ, ಮೈಸೂರು </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-000c.1.4">
			<p><span class="en">* Religion is not a matter of personal sentiment that has nothing to do with the objective realities of society but is, on the contrary, the heart of social life and the root of every living culture. We are just beginning to understand how intimately and profoundly the vitality of any society is bound up in its religion. It is the religious impulse which supplies the cohesive force which unifies the society and the culture. The great civilizations of the world do not produce the great religions as a kind of cultural byproduct; in a very real sense, the religions are the foundations on which the great civilizations rest. A society which has lost its religion becomes sooner or later a society which has lost its culture.?Christopher Dowson : Inquiries into Religion and Culture, Sheed and Ward </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-000c.1.5">
			<p>ಆದಲೆ ಅಂಥ ಪಲ್ಯತಲ್ ವಿಫಲವಾಲಲೇಲೇಲು.<span class="en">‘You can threaten to torture a man for discovering the truth; you can call him a fool and try to laugh him out of the court ; but that does not alter the truth.’ ‘It lies not in your power’ said Andrew Melville, ‘to hang or exile the truth. Truth may be attacked, delayed, suppressed, mocked at, but time brings in its revenges and in the end truth prevails. A man must have a care that he is not fighting against the truth.’?The Daily Study Bible : The Gospel of Mark by William Barclay, Page 102; Published by Theological Publications in Inida, Malleswarm West, Bangalore.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.1">
			<p><span class="en">* Success comes before work only in the dictionary.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.2">
			<p><span class="en">* Our main business is not to see what lies dimly at a distance, but to do what lies clearly at hand</span><span class="quote-author">- Thomas Carlyle</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.3">
			<p class="verse">* ಗತಶೋಕಂ ನ ಕುರ್ವೀತ  ಭವಿಷ್ಯಂ ನೈವ ಚಿಂತಯೇತ್ ।<br/>
							     ವರ್ತಮಾನೇಷು ಕಾರ್ಯೇಷು ವರ್ತಯಂತಿ ವಿಚಕ್ಷಣಾಃ  ॥ </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.4">
			<p><span class="en">* In the shoreless ocean of reality, man finds only  what he seeks. Saint Francis of Assisi found God, Einstein, the Laws  of the Cosmos. God can only be en- countered outside the dimensions  of space and time, behind the intellect, in that indefinable realm,  which according to Ruysbrock the admirable can only be penetrated  by love and longing.–Dr. Alexis Carrel, `<em>Reflections of  Life,</em>’</span><span class="quote-author"> Jaico  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.5">
			<p><span class="en">* Trifles make perfection and perfection is  not trifle.</span><span class="quote-author"> –Michelangelo</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.6">
			<p><span class="en">* The hell to be endured hereafter of whch theology  tells, is no worse than the hell we make ourselves in this world by  habitually fashioning our character in the wrong way.</span><span class="quote-author">–Willam James  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.7">
			<p><span class="en">* The Lord may forgive our sins, but the nervous  system never does.</span><span class="quote-author">– Willjiam James  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.8">
			<p><span class="en">* People's thoughts come to me as pictures. I usually  see visual images of a specific action. Thoughts of deaf and dumb  are easier to get, probably because they think much more visually  than the rest of us.</span><span class="quote-author">–Wolf Messing  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.9">
			<p><span class="en">* Like attracts like, like begets like, like  becomes like.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.10">
			<p><span class="en">* I have learned that success is to be measured not  so much by the position that one has reached in life as by the obstacles  which he has overcome while trying to succeed.</span><span class="quote-author">–Booker T. Washington  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.11">
			<p>* ಶ್ರೀಮದ್ ಭಗವದ್ಗೀತಾ,  ೬, ೪ಂ.</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.12">
			<p><span class="en">* Through patience we learn to know self, to  measure and test our ideals, to use faith and to seek understanding  through virtue. Thus all spiritual attributes are embraced in patience.</span><span class="quote-author">–Edgar  Caycee</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-1.13">
			<p><span class="en">* ‘O Lord–thou givest us everything at the  price of an effort.’</span><span class="quote-author">–Leonardo da Vinci</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.1>
			<p><span class="en">* In space the Universe engulfs me and reduces me  to a pin point. But throgh thought, I understand that Universe.</span><span class="quote-author">–Pascal  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.2>
			<p><span class="en">* The aim of civilisation is the progress, not of  science and machinery, but of mankind</span><span class="quote-author">–Alexis Carrel  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.3>
			<p><span class="en">** Psychoneuros must be understood as the suffering  of a human being who has not discovered what life means to him.</span><span class="quote-author">–C.G.  Jung.</span></p>
			<p><span class="en">The 20th Century neurosis is the neurosis of purposelessness,  meaning- lessness, valuelessness, hollowness and emptiness.</span><span class="quote-author">–T.M.  Thomas,<em> Images of Man</em>  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.4>
			<p><span class="en">* The mind is hidden within the living matter completely  neglected by physiologists and economists, almost unnoticed by physicians.  Yet it is the most colossal power of this world.</span><span class="quote-author">–Dr. Alexis Carrel</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.5>
			<p><span class="en">** Part of psyche is beyond time and space and is  unknown to us. That which is beyond time and space is also beyond  causation.</span><span class="quote-author">–C.G.Jung</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.6>
			<p><span class="en">* The work on the Kirlian Effect's diagnostic properties  alone is being conducted not only in Russia but in Rumania, Bulgaria,  Hungary, Czecho- slovakia and East Germany by over 1000 high level  scientists, physicists and biologists, medical doctors with a total  staff of as many as 50,000 laboratory assistants.–</span><span class="quote-author"><em>The New  Soviet Psychic Discoveries</em></span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.7>
			<p>ಈ ಬಗ್ಕೆೃ ಹೆಚ್ಚಿನ ವಿವರಗಳಿಗಾಗಿ  ಓದಿ : <span class="en">:<em>Future Science : Life Energies And Physics  of paranormal Phenomenon</em>; Edited by John White and Stanley Kripner.  Anchor Books : Doubleday and Co. In., Garden City, New York.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.8>
			<p><span class="en">* All Your actions, feelings, behaviour, even your  abilities are always consistent with this self-image. In short, your  will “act like” the sort of person you conceive yourself to  be, not only this, but you literally cannot act otherwise, in spite  of all your conscious efforts or will-power.</span><span class="quote-author">–Dr. Maxwell Maltz,  Psycho-Cybernatics</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.9>
			<p><span class="en">* You usually do not realise that your physical body  is created by you at each moment as a direct result of your inner  conception of what you are, or that it changes in important chemical  and electro-magnetic ways with ever moving pace of your own thought.–</span><span class="quote-author"><em>Seth  Speaks,</em> The Eternal Validity of the Soul  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.10">
			<p><span class="en">* Scientists especially when they leave the particular  field in which they have specialised are just as ordinary pig-headed  and unreasonable as anybody else and the unsually high intelligence  only makes their prejudices all the more dangerous.</span><span class="quote-author">–<em>Prof.  Eysenck</em></span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.11">
			<p><span class="en">* Therapeutic as well as reformist efforts verify  the sad truth that in any system based on exclusion, suppression and  exploitation, the suppressed, ex- cluded and exploited unconsciously  accept the evil image they are made to represent by those who are  dominant.</span><span class="quote-author">–Erik Erikson, Identity,</span><em>Youth and Crisis.</em></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.12">
			<p>* ಡಾ. ಯು. ಆರ್. ಅನಂತಮೂರ್ತಿ,  ‘ಸಮಕ್ಷಮ’</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.13">
			<p><span class="en">1. Ultimate reality or Supreme Consciousness.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.14">
			<p><span class="en">2.  Unconscious life current.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.15">
			<p><span class="en">3. Individualised Consciousness.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.16">
			<p><span class="en">4. Mind  and body</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.17">
			<p>* ಡಾ. ಯೂಂಗ್ ಅವರ ಈ ಮಾತುಗಳನ್ನು  ಓದಿ <span class="en">: The ego is ill for the very reason that it is cut off  from the whole and lost its connection with mankind as well as the  spirit</span><span class="quote-author">–Dr. C. G. Jung</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.18">
			<p><span class="en">* Man is capable of a little and a lot, of everything  and a nothing.</span><span class="quote-author">–Pascal.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.19">
			<p>೧.<span class="en">No books, no scriputres, no science  can ever imagine the glory of the self that appears as man, the most  glorious God that ever was, the only God that ever existed. </span><span class="quote-author">– Swami  Vivekananda  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.20">
			<p>೨.<span class="en"> Man stands between two infinitie;  the infinitely small and the infinitely big.</span><span class="quote-author">– Bertrand Rusell  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.21">
			<p>೩.<span class="en">What is man in the Universe ? A nothing  compared to the infinite, a something compared to the nothing –  middle between nothing and every- thing </span><span class="quote-author">– Pascal  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.22">
			<p>೧.<span class="en">Quantum theory forces us to see the  universe not as a collection of physical objects, but rather as a  complicated web of relation between the various parts of unified whole. </span><span class="quote-author">–Dr.  Capra  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.23">
			<p>೧.<span class="en">Far from its august perspective the  universe is revealed as one elemental field in which each star, each  atom, each wandering comet and slow-wheeling galaxy and flying electron  is seen to be but a ripple or tumescence in the underlying space-time  unity.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.24">
			<p>೨.<span class="en">Thus, all man's perceptions of the  world and all his abstract intuitions of reality merge finally into  one, and the deep underlying unity of the universe is laid bare.</span><span class="quote-author">Lincoln  Barnett  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.25">
			<p>೩.<span class="en">Infinite stars and minute atoms not  only converge but also exist as integral units</span><span class="quote-author"> V. Rednick  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.26">
			<p>೪.<span class="en">Since motion and change are essential  properties of things, the forces causing the motion are not outside  the objects, but are an intrinsic property of matter. Correspondingly,  the Eastern image of the Divine is not that of a ruler who directs  the world from above, but of a principle that controls everything  from within.</span><span class="quote-author"> - Dr. Capra  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.27">
			<p>೧.<span class="en">It is only a narrow view of what  is natural that prevents our recognising the presence of God every  where within and around us. Nothing is real except God, and relations  of time and space are only the order of His manifestation. Nature  is just the manifestation of God and evolution is no more biological  or physical phenomenon, but the order in time relations of His Manifestations.</span><span class="quote-author">J.  S. Haldane, The Science and Philosophy.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.28">
			<p>೨.<span class="en"> . . . .this evolutionary drive is  `directed' as if by some single gigantic organism.</span><span class="quote-author">Chardin Phenomenon  of Man  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.29">
			<p>೧.<span class="en">My religion consists of a humble  admiration of the illimitable Superior Spirit who reveals Himself  in the slight details we are able to preceive with our frail and feeble  minds. That deeply emotional conviction of the presence of a Superior  Reasoning Power, which is revealed in he incomprehensible universe  forms my idea of God.</span><span class="quote-author">Einstein  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.30">
			<p>* ಹೆಚ್ಚಿನ ವಿವರಣೆಗೆ ಓದಿ–ಡಿ.ವಿ.ಜಿ.  ಅವರ ‘ದೇವರು : ಒಂದು ವಿಚಾರಲಹರಿ’</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.31">
			<p>* ಸ್ವಾಮಿ ವಿವೇಕಾನಂದರು. </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.32">
			<p><span class="en">* If a child sees no hope of success in his work,  his eagerness for knowledge will be stifled, and cold bitterness will  grip a child's heart which no effort whatsoever will be able to thaw  out until the spark of eagerness lights up again (and kindling it  a second time is an infinitely difficult task); a child loses faith  in his capacity, shuts up like a clam, becomes wary and prickly, responds  with brazen resentment to advice and emonstrations from his teachers.  Or worse still–his sense of dignity is undermined and he reconciles  himself to the thought that he has no real ability. My heart is always  filled with anger and indignation, when I see one of these apathetic,  resigned children who is ready to listen patiently to a teacher's  exhortations for hours at a stretch and completely indifferent to  the words of his classmates; when they reproach him with lagging behind  or repeating a class. . . There is nothing more immoral than kill  another person's sense of dignity !  </span></p>
			<p><span class="en">Interest in learning is only to be found where there  is inspiration born of success.</span><br /><span class="quote-author">–V. Sukhomlinsky, <em>On Education</em>  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-2.33">
			<p><span class="en">* Infinite power of the Spirit brought to bear upon  matter evolves material development, made to act upon thought evolves  intellectuality, made to act upon Itself makes of man a God.</span><span class="quote-author">–Swami  Vivekananda.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.1">
			<p>* ಬ್ರಿಟನ್ನಿನ ಪ್ರಸಿದ್ಧ  ಮನೋರೋಗ ಚಿಕಿತ್ಸಾ ತಜ್ಞರಾದ ಪೀಟರ್ ಬ್ಲೀತ್ ತಮ್ಮ  <span class="en">Stress Disease : The Growing Plague</span> ಎನ್ನುವ ಗ್ರಂಥದಲ್ಲಿ  ಈ ಕೆಳಗಿನ ರೋಗಗಳನ್ನು ಮನೋದೈಹಿಕ  ಬೇನೆಗಳೆಂದು ಹೆಸರಿಸಿದ್ದಾರೆ <span class="en">: Hypertension.  Heart Attack, Cerebral Vascular Episode. Migraine, Allergies. Bronchial  Asthma, Hay Fever. Anorexia Nervosa, Pruritis, Colitis, Constipation,  Diarrhoea, Belching, Hiccough, Menstrual Disorders, Hyper Thyroidism,  Diabetes, Mellitus, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Skin Disorders and Tuberculosis.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.2">
			<p><span class="en">* Death is a subject that is evaded, ignored  by our youth worshipping, progress-oriented society.	</span><span class="quote-author">–Kubler  Ross</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.3">
			<p><span class="en">* Suffering does not depend upon what we have, but  what we are.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.4">
			<p><span class="en">* Quoted by Dr. Roy D. Kirkland, D. O. in `Health  in your Design' in the Edger Caycee Reader.    </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.5">
			<p><span class="en">* Faith is one of the forces by which men live and  the total absence of it means collapse.</span><span class="quote-author">–William James  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.6">
			<p><span class="en">* There is no school equal to decent home and no  teachers equal to honest and virtuous parents. Modern high school  eduaction is a dead weight on the villagers. Their children will never  be able to get it, and thank God they will never miss it if they have  the training of the decent home.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.7">
			<p><span class="en">* Throughout life, it is important to emphasise that  experiences are drawn to us in direct accordance with the degree of  intensity of the feelings we put behind our mental images.</span><span class="quote-author">–Herold  Sherman  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.8">
			<p><span class="en">* If you feel afraid of anything always turn round  and face it. Never think of running away.</span><span class="quote-author">–Swami Vivekananda  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.9">
			<p>* ವಿಶೇಷ ಜ್ಞಾನ ಮತ್ತು ಪರಿಣತಿ.</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.10">
			<p>* ‘ಕಂದನಲ್ಲಿ ಶಿವನ ಕಾಣುವ ಬಂಧನವೆ  ಮುಕ್ತಿ’–ಕುವೆಂಪು </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.11">
			<p><span class="en">* Science can denature Plutonium, but not the wickedness  of human heart.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.12">
			<p><span class="en">* It is now a known fact that hundreds of young revolutionaries  of Bengal were inspired by the message of Swami Vivekananda and cheerfully  embraced sufferings and death with `Vandemataram' on their lips and  Vivekananda's teaching in their heart.</span><span class="quote-author">–Dr. R. C. Majumdar,</span><em>Three  Faces of India's Struggle for Freedom</em></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.13">
			<p><span class="en">* The modern experiment to live without religion  has failed and once we have understood this, we know what our post-modern  tasks really are.–E. F. Schu- macher,</span><em>A Guide for the Perplexed</em></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.14">
			<p>* ಇದು ಕೆಲವು ವರ್ಷಗಳ  ಹಿಂದೆ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ ಲೇಖನ ಎಂಬುದನ್ನು ಗಮನಿಸಬೇಕು.</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.15">
			<p><span class="en">* When to Article 28 which prohibits ‘religious  instruction’ in educational institutions maintained out of State Funds,  I moved an amendment that the ban should not apply to ‘Moral and Spiritual  Instruction’, it was rejected, and I felt sad; it augured ill for  the future... India’s political awakening was preceded by a luminous  religio-spiritual renasissance which indeed provided the foundation  and infrastructure for our freedom struggle. So, if our parliamentary  democratic polity had continued to be vivified by Moral and Spiritual  Values, all would have been well with us.</span><span class="quote-author">–H. V. Kamath,</span>Bhavan’s  Journal, August 1981.</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.16">
			<p><span class="en">* Science deals with but a partial aspect of reality.  There is no faintest reason for supporting that everything Science  ignores is less real than what it accepts. We are no longer taught  that the Scientific Method of approaching is the only valid method  of acquiring knowledge about reality. Eminent men of Science are insisting,  with what seems a strange enthusiasm, on the fact that Science gives  us but a partial knowledge of reality, and we are no longer required  to regard as illusory, everything that Science finds itself able to  ignore.</span><span class="quote-author">–W. N. Sullivan  </span></p>
			<p><span class="en">In matters of Philosophy and Religion, Science is  not the arbiter. The final judgement on ultimate questions must always  rest with Philosophy and Religion themselves.</span><span class="quote-author">–W. J. Sollas  </span></p>
			<p><span class="en">Incompatibility between Science and Faith exists  in the minds of those who want such an imcompatibility.</span><span class="quote-author">–Prof.  Lecomte    </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.17">
			<p><span class="en">* The Indian religions are not exclusively-minded.  They are ready to allow that there may be alternative approaches to  the mystery. I feel sure that in this they are right, and that this  catholic-minded Indian religious spirit is the way of salvation for  human beings of all religions in an age in which we have to learn  to live as a single family if we are not to destroy ourselves.–Arnold  Toynbee  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.18">
			<p><span class="en">* It is in the light of our beliefs about the  ultimate nature of reality that we formulate our conceptions of right  and wrong; and it is in the light of our conceptions of right and  wrong that we frame our conduct, not only in the relations of private  life, but also in the sphere of politics and economics. So, far from  being irrelevant, our metaphysical beliefs are the finally determining  factor in all our actions.</span><span class="quote-author">–Aldous Huxley</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-3.19">
			<p><span class="en">* William Digby estimates (Prosperous British  India, Page 33) that probably between (the battle of) Plassey (1757)  and Waterloo (1815) a sum of ë1000 million was transfered from  Indian hoards to English Banks.–<em>Tarachand, History of Freedom  Movement.</em>  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.1">
			<p><span class="en">* By love ... I do not mean sentimentality or  possessive emotion ; but the steady recognition of others’ uniqueness,  and a sustained intention to seek their good.</span><span class="quote-author">– Adlai Stevenson  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.2">
			<p>*ಮಾಸ್ತಿ ವೆಂಕಟೇಶ ಅಯ್ಯಂಗಾರ್,  ‘ಭಾರತ ತೀರ್ಥ’</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.3">
			<p><span class="en">* . . . . Moreover pre-war Science was much more  interested in the study of criminals than of saints, of the insane  than of genius, of the struggle for existence than of mutual aid and  of hate and selfishness than of compassion and love. </span><span class="quote-author">–Pitrim A.  Sorokin  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.4">
			<p><span class="en"><span class="en">* Having taught classes in Biology, Health,  Hygiene, and Sex Education, I feel that I know of what I speak. In  my opinion, if all aspects of Love, aside from sexuality, had been  served to our nation’s youth as applied courses from kindergarten  through college over the past two hundred years, we would not be experiencing  many of the problems we have in our social, political and racial relationships.<em>–Edgar  Cayee’s Story of Attitudes and Emotions, </em></span>Edited and arranged  by </span><span class="quote-author">Jeffrey Furst    </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.5">
			<p>  <span class="en">* Many women neither love nor take care of their  sons and daughters–in fact, as we will see, women by thousands  each year desert, mutilate or even kill their children. Fathers are  often worse.</span><span class="quote-author">–Holt, Rinchant and Winston,</span> Under- standing Human  Behaviour</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.6">
			<p><span class="en">* Mother is yearning love that can never refuse us,  a bendiction that forever abides with us, a presence from which we  cannot grow away, a heart in which we are safe, sweetness unfathomed,  bond never breakable, holiness without a shadow, all these indeed  and more.</span><span class="quote-author">–Sister Nivedita.    </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.7">
			<p>*ಕುವೆಂಪು, “ಶತಮಾನ  ಸಂಧ್ಯೆ.”</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.8">
			<p><span class="en">* Civilized societies which have most strictly limited  sexual freedom have developed the highest culutres. In the whole of  human history not a single case is found in which a society advanced  to the Rationalistic Culture without its women being born and reared  in a rigidly enforced pattern of faithfulness to one man. Further,  there is no example of a community which has retained its high position  on the culture scale after less rigorous sexual customs have replaced  more restricting ones.</span><span class="quote-author">–Pitirim A. Sorokin,</span> <em>Sane Sex Order,</em>  Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Bombay.</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.9">
			<p><span class="en">* More than half of all serious crimes (murder,  rape, aggravated assault, burglary, larceny, motor vehicle theft)  in the United States are committed by youths aged 10 to 17–Time,  July 1977 </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.10">
			<p><span class="en">* I have had before me hundreds of cases in  which a man’s property, liberty or life has depended upon his telling  a lie and he has refused to tell it.</span><span class="quote-author">–Col. Sleeman  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.11">
			<p>* ಕೋಟ ವಾಸುದೇವ ಕಾರಂತ,  ‘ದಾನ ಮಾಡಬೇಕು.’</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.12">
			<p><span class="en">* We see things not as they are but as we are.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.13">
			<p><span class="en">* As soon as a person can truly learn to love the  disagreeable or restrictive person with whom he involved, he will  be released from the bondage.</span><span class="quote-author">–Gina Cerminara  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.14">
			<p><span class="en">** Being incarnations of the principle of competition  from its mildest to its most cut-throat forms, they engender in individuals  and groups, the spirit of mutual struggle rather than of mutual aids,  the pathos of aggressiveness instead of love.</span><span class="quote-author">–Pitirim A. Sorokin</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.15">
			<p>**ಆದರೆ ವೃತ್ತಿಯು ಜಾತಿಯಾಗಿ  ಹೆಪ್ಪುಗಟ್ಟುವ ಸಂಭವ ಇಂದಿನ ನಿರುದ್ಯೋಗದ  ದಿನಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಅಸಾಧ್ಯ ವೆನ್ನಲಾರೆವು. ಅಲ್ಲಲ್ಲಿ  ಉದ್ಯೋಗಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ಪರದಾಡುವುದಕ್ಕಿಂತ,  ರೈಲ್ವೆ ಇಲಾಖೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ದುಡಿಯುವವರು ತಮ್ಮ  ಮಕ್ಕಳಿಗೆ ರೈಲ್ವೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಒಂದೆರಡು  ಉದ್ಯೋಗ ರಿಸರ್ವ್ ಇರಿಸಲಿ, ಪಿ ಎಂಡ್ ಟಿ ಅವರು ಉದ್ಯೋಗಕ್ಕೆ  ಅಲ್ಲಲ್ಲಿ ಅಲೆದಾಡುವುದಕ್ಕಿಂತ ತಾವು ರಿಟೈರ್  ಆದ ಬಳಿಕ ತಮ್ಮ ಮಕ್ಕಳಿಗೆ ಅದೇ ಇಲಾಖೆಯಲ್ಲಿ  ಉದ್ಯೋಗ ದೊರೆಯಲಿ ಎಂದರೆ ಆಶ್ಚರ್ಯವಿದೆಯೆ?  ಅದೇ ಮುಂದೆ ಮುಂದುವರಿದರೆ ಒಂದು ಜಾತಿಯಾಗಿ ಪರಿ ಣಮಿಸುವುದು,  ದರ್ಜೆ, ಕಮ್ಮಾರ ಇದ್ದಂತೆ, ರೈಲ್ವೆ, ಪೋಸ್ಟಲ್  ಇತ್ಯಾದಿ ಜಾತಿ. ಆಗ ರೈಲ್ವೆ, ಪೋಸ್ಟಲ್ ಜಗಳಾಡಬೇಕೆ?  ದ್ವೇಷ ಸಾಧಿಸಬೇಕೆ? </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.16">
			<p><span class="en">* We have maintained our power by playing off one  part against the other and we must continue to do so. Do what you  can therefore, to prevent all having a common feeling.–Mr. Wood  to Elgin, Quoted from : Tarachand, <em>History of Freedom Movement  in India.</em>    </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.17">
			<p>* ಡಾ. ಪ್ರಭುಶಂಕರ,  “ಜನಮನ”.  </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.18">
			<p>೧. ಜಿ. ಎಸ್. ಶಿವರುದ್ರಪ್ಪ. ೨. ಬಸವಣ್ಣನವರು </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-4.19">
			<p>೨. ಬಸವಣ್ಣನವರು </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.1">
			<p><span class="en">* It is not a matter of belief or opinion. I  know beyond a shadow of doubt that there is life after death.—</span>ಅಮೇರಿಕದ  <span class="en">Macgall (Aug.</span>೧೯೭೬ )ಮಾಸಪತ್ರಿಕೆಯಿಂದ ಉದ್ಧೃತ. </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.2">
			<p>೧. ಇಂತಹದೇ ಇನ್ನೊಂದು ಅನುಭವಕ್ಕೆ  ಓದಿ:‘ನನ್ನ ಮರಣೋತ್ತರ’–ಸಂತೋಷಕುಮಾರ  ಗುಲ್ವಾಡಿ, ಕಸ್ತೂರಿ, ಸೆಪ್ಟಂಬರ್ ೧೯೮೧</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.3">
			<p>೨. ಆದರೆ ಒಂದು ವಿಚಾರವನ್ನು ಇಲ್ಲಿ  ಹೇಳಬೇಕು. ಆತ್ಮಹತ್ಯೆಯಂಥ ಪಾಪಕಾರ್ಯವು  ಜೀವಿಗೆ ಅತ್ಯಂತ ದುಃಖ ಹಾಗೂ ದುಃಸ್ಥಿತಿಯನ್ನುಂಟುಮಾಡುವುದು  ಎಂಬುದು ಡಾ. ರೋಸ್ ಹಾಗೂ ಇತರ ತಜ್ಞರ ಅಭಿಮತ.  </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.4">
			<p>೧. ಕೋಟ ಶ್ರೀ ವಾಸುದೇವ ಕಾರಂತ, ‘ಪುನರ್ಜನ್ಮ’</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.5">
			<p>೨.<span class="en"> Birth and before : What people say about  in hypnosis. David Chamberlin (A Clincial Psychologist).</span> ಡೆಕ್ಕನ್  ಹೆರಾಲ್ಡ್​ನಲ್ಲಿ <span class="en">Beth Anna Krier</span> ಅವರು ಮೇಲಿನ  ಗ್ರಂಥವನ್ನು ಕುರಿತು ಬರೆದ ವಿಮರ್ಶೆಯ ಲೇಖನದಿಂದ  ಇದನ್ನು ಸಂಗ್ರಹಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. </p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.6">
			<p><span class="en">* What we were dealing with is mind. It is a non-physical  aspect of every person. </span><span class="quote-author">Dr. Chamberlin.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.7">
			<p> <span class="en">* Eccles strongly defends the ancient religious belief  that human being consists of a mysterious compound of physical matter  and intangible spirit. This non-material self survies the death of  the physical brain.    </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.8">
			<p><span class="en">* Ian Currie, You cannot Die : The Incredible findings  of a century of research of death (Hamlyn : Jonathan James Books).  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.9">
			<p>೧.<span class="en"> The Kirlian device apparently converts  a nonelectrical phenomenon to an electrical one to make it visible.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.10">
			<p>೨.<span class="en">All living thingsåplants, animals  and humansånot only have a physical body made of atoms and molecules  but also have a counterpart body of energy. They called it `The Biological  Plasma Body.'    </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-5.11">
			<p><span class="en">* Other Lives, Other Selves : A Jungian Psychotherapist  Discovers Past Lives, Roger. </span><span class="quote-author">J. Woolger. Bantam Books.    </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.1">
			<p><span class="en">* For every action there is an equal and opposite  reaction.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.2">
			<p><span class="en">* Glands themselves are focal points for the expression  of the heredity of the psyche for its Karma.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.3">
			<p>೧.<span class="en">What you condemn in others that you  become in yourself.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.4">
			<p>೨.<span class="en">As you criticized, know that you  yourself must be criticized.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.5">
			<p><span class="en">* At every instant, we are creating our own future  and dictating the terms of future.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.6">
			<p><span class="en">* Physical heredity exists but it is subservient  to psychic heredity.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.7">
			<p>೧.<span class="en">Vocation is just like a matrix throuth  which some aspect of man's spiritual growth takes place.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.8">
			<p>೨.<span class="en">He that would be the greatest among  you, will be the servant of all.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.9">
			<p>೩.<span class="en">Service to others is the highest  service to God.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.10">
			<p>೪.<span class="en">Strive to be of service to others.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.11">
			<p><span class="en">* No marriage is a start on a clean slate. It is  an episode in a serial story begun long before.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.12">
			<p><span class="en">* But the greatest of all careers is the Home. Those  who shun it, shall have much yet to answer for. For, this is the nearest  emblem of what each soul hopes eventually to obtain, a heavenly home.  Then make your home as a shadow of a heavenly home.  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.13">
			<p><span class="en">* Objective knowledge provides us with powerful instruments  for the achievements of certain ends in life but the ultimate goal  of life and longing to reach it must come from another source.</span><span class="quote-author">–Albert  Einstein  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.14">
			<p><span class="en">* `. . . .Flatly and emphatically that, far from  being a half-baked myth, the law of reincarnation is a cold, hard  fact.'  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-6.15">
			<p><span class="en">* Willam Rouseville Alger, A critical history  of the doctrine of a future life (New York : Greenwood Press, 1968)  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-7.1">
			<p>* ಸ್ಥೂಲ, ಸೂಕ್ಷ್ಮ, ಕಾರಣ–ಈ  ಮೂರು ಶರೀರಗಳ ಸಂಧಿಸ್ಥಾನವನ್ನು ತಂತ್ರಶಾಸ್ತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ  ಚಕ್ರ ಎಂದು ಕರೆಯುತ್ತಾರೆ.</p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-7.2">
			<p><span class="en">* Prayer is the most powerful form of energy  one can generate. It is a force as real as terrestrial gravity. As  a physician, I have seen men, after all other therapy had failed,  lifted out of disease and melancholy by the serene effort of prayer  . . . Prayer, like radium, is a source of luminous, self-generating  energy . . . . When we pray we link ourselves with the inexhaustible  motive force which spins the universe. Even in asking, our human deficiencies  are filled and we arise strengthened and repaired . . . whenever we  address God in fervent prayer, we change both soul and body for the  better.</span><span class="quote-author">–Dr. Alexis Carrel  </span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-8.1">
			<p>೧.<span class="en"> Seven Reasons why a scientist believes in  God; by A. Cressy Morrison.</span></p>
		</aside>
		<aside epub:type="footnote" id="id-8.2">
			<p>೨.<span class="en"> ‘What is impenetrable to us exists manifesting  as this wonderful universe and radiant beauty.’</span></p>
		</aside>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
